content/page/bosc-2025.md, before:

---
author: nlharris
cover:
  alt: BOSC-org-committee-Montreal - 1
  image: /wp-content/uploads/2024/08/BOSC-org-committee-Montreal-1.jpeg
date: "2024-12-17T23:29:18+00:00"
guid: https://www.open-bio.org/?page_id=8331
title: BOSC 2025
url: /events/bosc-2025/
aliases:
  - /events/bosc/
bosc: yes

---
![Part of the audience of BOSC 2023](/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/BOSC2023-crowded-room-Jason-standing-1.png)

Since 2000, BOSC has covered all aspects of open source bioinformatics and open science.

**BOSC 2025, the 26th annual Bioinformatics Open Source Conference,
  took place July 21-22, 2025 in Liverpool, UK (as part of
  [ISMB/ECCB 2025](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/home))**.

BOSC 2025 spanned two days of [keynote talks](/events/bosc-2025/bosc-2025-keynotes/), a panel discussion, talks from submitted abstracts, and posters. The full lineup of talks and posters is available on our [Schedule page](/events/bosc-2025/bosc-2025-schedule/).

BOSC 2025 included a [joint session](/2025/03/17/BOSC-BOKR-2025) with the
[Bio-Ontologies and Knowledge Representation (BOKR)](https://www.bio-ontologies.org.uk/2025-meeting).
It featured a [joint keynote by Chris Mungall](/events/bosc-2025/bosc-2025-keynotes/) and talks on some of our favorite topics, including open data and reusable and reproducible science.
The program concluded with a [panel discussion on Data Sustainability](/events/bosc-2025/panel/).

BOSC 2026 will take place in Washington, DC, as part of [ISMB 2026](https://www.iscb.org/ismb2026/home), July 12-16, 2026. We hope you will join us!

<br/>

<div class="well">

## BOSC 2025 Key Dates

{{< columns >}}
- April 17: Abstract submission deadline (talks and posters)
- May 15: Late poster submission deadline
- July 20-24, 2025: [ISMB/ECCB 2025](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/home) (Liverpool, UK, and online)
- **July 21-22, 2025:** **BOSC 2025** (part of ISMB/ECCB 2025)
- July 22 (second day of BOSC): [Joint session with Bio-Ontologies and Knowledge Representation (BOKR)](/2025/03/17/BOSC-BOKR-2025)
- July 23-24: [ISMB CollaborationFest](/events/bosc-2025/ismb-collaborationfest-2025/) (collaborative work event)

{{< column >}}
![Thomas Mboa during BOSC 2024](/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Thomas-Mboa-on-panel.jpeg)

{{< endcolumns >}}

</div>

### Topics

{{< columns >}}
![Larry Hunter and Melanie Courtot at BOSC 2024](/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Larry-and-Melanie-in-BOSC-audience-1.jpeg)
<br/>

{{< column >}}

- Open Science and Reproducible Research
- Open Biomedical Data
- Citizen/Participatory Science
- Standards and Interoperability
- Data Science
- Workflows
- Data Access and Visualization
- Translational Bioinformatics
- Developer Tools and Libraries
- Outreach and Training
- Open AI/ML
- Sustainable Data
- ...and more!

{{< endcolumns >}}

<br/>

### Registration and Financial Assistance

To participate in BOSC 2025 or the ISMB CollaborationFest, you will
need to [register for ISMB/ECCB 2025](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/register). Those who
[submit abstracts to BOSC](/events/bosc-2025/submit/) can request a
fee waiver on the submission form. You can also apply for an
[OBF Event Award](/event-awards/); the deadline is April 1.

![BOSC 2024 organizing committee](/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/BOSC-org-committee-Montreal-1.jpeg)


## Sponsorships

{{< columns >}}

![Beatrice Mihalache presenting a poster at BOSC 2024](/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/Beatrice-Mihalache-with-BOSC-poster.jpg)

{{< column >}}

[Sponsorships](/events/bosc/sponsors/) from companies and non-profit organizations help to defray some of our costs and support our outreach efforts. Thanks to our sponsors, we were able to grant free registration to 15 participants at BOSC 2024, offer honoraria to keynote speakers, and cover other expenses.

If you're interested in sponsoring BOSC 2025, please see our
[sponsors page](/events/bosc/sponsors/)!

{{< endcolumns >}}


### 2025 Platinum Sponsor:

<a target="_new" href="https://chanzuckerberg.com/science/"><img src="/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/CZI_Logotype_RGB.jpg" style="width:65%" alt="CZI" /></a>

{{< columns >}}

<br/>

**2025 Gold Sponsor:**

<a target="_new" href="https://seqera.io/"><img src="/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Logo_Seqera-Color.png" style="width:95%" alt="Seqera" /></a>


{{< column >}}
<br/>
**2025 Silver Sponsor:**

{{< columns >}}

[![GigaScience](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Gigascience.png)](https://academic.oup.com/gigascience)

{{< column >}}

{{< endcolumns >}}

{{< endcolumns >}}

<div class="well">

### About BOSC

The Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC) has been [held annually since 2000](/events/bosc/about/). BOSC is organized by the [Open Bioinformatics Foundation (OBF)](/wiki/Main_Page), a non-profit group dedicated to promoting the practice and philosophy of open source software development and open science within the biological research community.

Since its inception, BOSC has provided a forum for developers and users to interact and share research results and ideas in open source bioinformatics. BOSC’s broad spectrum of topics includes practical techniques for solving bioinformatics problems; software development practices; standards and ontologies; approaches that promote open science and sharing of data, results and software; and ways to grow and sustain open source communities.

BOSC is usually preceded or followed by 
[CollaborationFest](/events/bosc/collaborationfest/)
(CoFest for short), a two-day collaborative work session. This is an
opportunity for anyone interested in open science, biology and
programming to meet, talk and work collaboratively. In 2025,
CollaborationFest will be part of ISMB/ECCB!

<a href="/events/bosc/about" class="btn btn-lg btn-primary">More about BOSC</a>

</div>

<div class="well">

### BOSC 2025 Organizing Committee

{{< columns >}}

***Chair: Nomi L. Harris*** (Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory)

- Karsten Hokamp (Trinity College Dublin)
- Deepak Unni (SIB, Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics)
- Jessica Maia (BD)
- Tazro Ohta (Chiba University)
- Jason Williams (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory)
- Monica Munoz-Torres (Univ. of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus)
- Hervé Ménager (Institut Pasteur)

{{< column >}}

![BOSC 2025 Organizing Committee](/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/BOSC-2025-org-committee-square.png)

{{< endcolumns >}}

#### BOSC 2025 Review Committee
Aziz Khan*, Bastian Greshake Tzovaras*, Bhavesh Patel, Christopher Fields*, Damien Goutte-Gattat*, Daniel Korn, Deepak Unni, Fortune Ogo-Ndah Awala, Gayathri Jonnalagadda, J. Harry Caufield*, Karsten Hokamp, Kartik Khosa, Konstantin Okonechnikov, 
Luis Pedro Coelho, Monica C Munoz-Torres, Naouel Karam, Nomi Harris, Olawumi Olasunkanmi, Peter Cock, Rafael Gonçalves, Sayali Talware, Sepideh Mazrouee*, Tanya Berardini, Tazro Ohta*, Tyrone Chen, Van Truong, Yuvanesh Vedaraju
* indicates reviewers who did extra reviews

</div>

#### Code of Conduct

As part of ISMB/ECCB 2025, BOSC 2025 is covered by the [ISCB Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.iscb.org/iscb-policy-statements/iscb-code-of-ethics-and-professional-conduct).

Commit message:

Add link to BOSC 2025 report

content/page/bosc-2025.md, after:

---
author: nlharris
cover:
  alt: BOSC-org-committee-Montreal - 1
  image: /wp-content/uploads/2024/08/BOSC-org-committee-Montreal-1.jpeg
date: "2024-12-17T23:29:18+00:00"
guid: https://www.open-bio.org/?page_id=8331
title: BOSC 2025
url: /events/bosc-2025/
aliases:
  - /events/bosc/
bosc: yes

---
![Part of the audience of BOSC 2023](/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/BOSC2023-crowded-room-Jason-standing-1.png)

Since 2000, BOSC has covered all aspects of open source bioinformatics and open science.

**BOSC 2025, the 26th annual Bioinformatics Open Source Conference,
  took place July 21-22, 2025 in Liverpool, UK (as part of
  [ISMB/ECCB 2025](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/home))**. Read our [BOSC 2025 report on F1000Research](https://f1000research.com/articles/14-887/v1)!

BOSC 2025 included two days of [keynote talks](/events/bosc-2025/bosc-2025-keynotes/), talks from submitted abstracts, a panel discussion, and posters. The full lineup of talks and posters is available on our [Schedule page](/events/bosc-2025/bosc-2025-schedule/). Video links will be added soon.

BOSC 2025 included a [joint session](/2025/03/17/BOSC-BOKR-2025) with the
[Bio-Ontologies and Knowledge Representation (BOKR)](https://www.bio-ontologies.org.uk/2025-meeting).
It featured a [joint keynote by Chris Mungall](/events/bosc-2025/bosc-2025-keynotes/) and talks on some of our favorite topics, including open data and reusable and reproducible science.
The program concluded with a [panel discussion on Data Sustainability](/events/bosc-2025/panel/).

BOSC 2026 will take place in Washington, DC, as part of [ISMB 2026](https://www.iscb.org/ismb2026/home), July 12-16, 2026. We hope you will join us!

<br/>

<div class="well">

## BOSC 2025 Key Dates

{{< columns >}}
- April 17: Abstract submission deadline (talks and posters)
- May 15: Late poster submission deadline
- July 20-24, 2025: [ISMB/ECCB 2025](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/home) (Liverpool, UK, and online)
- **July 21-22, 2025:** **BOSC 2025** (part of ISMB/ECCB 2025)
- July 22 (second day of BOSC): [Joint session with Bio-Ontologies and Knowledge Representation (BOKR)](/2025/03/17/BOSC-BOKR-2025)
- July 23-24: [ISMB CollaborationFest](/events/bosc-2025/ismb-collaborationfest-2025/) (collaborative work event)

{{< column >}}
![Thomas Mboa during BOSC 2024](/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Thomas-Mboa-on-panel.jpeg)

{{< endcolumns >}}

</div>

### Topics

{{< columns >}}
![Larry Hunter and Melanie Courtot at BOSC 2024](/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Larry-and-Melanie-in-BOSC-audience-1.jpeg)
<br/>

{{< column >}}

- Open Science and Reproducible Research
- Open Biomedical Data
- Citizen/Participatory Science
- Standards and Interoperability
- Data Science
- Workflows
- Data Access and Visualization
- Translational Bioinformatics
- Developer Tools and Libraries
- Outreach and Training
- Open AI/ML
- Sustainable Data
- ...and more!

{{< endcolumns >}}

<br/>

### Registration and Financial Assistance

To participate in BOSC 2025 or the ISMB CollaborationFest, you will
need to [register for ISMB/ECCB 2025](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/register). Those who
[submit abstracts to BOSC](/events/bosc-2025/submit/) can request a
fee waiver on the submission form. You can also apply for an
[OBF Event Award](/event-awards/); the deadline is April 1.

![BOSC 2024 organizing committee](/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/BOSC-org-committee-Montreal-1.jpeg)


## Sponsorships

{{< columns >}}

![Beatrice Mihalache presenting a poster at BOSC 2024](/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/Beatrice-Mihalache-with-BOSC-poster.jpg)

{{< column >}}

[Sponsorships](/events/bosc/sponsors/) from companies and non-profit organizations help to defray some of our costs and support our outreach efforts. Thanks to our sponsors, we were able to grant free registration to 15 participants at BOSC 2024, offer honoraria to keynote speakers, and cover other expenses.

If you're interested in sponsoring BOSC 2025, please see our
[sponsors page](/events/bosc/sponsors/)!

{{< endcolumns >}}


### 2025 Platinum Sponsor:

<a target="_new" href="https://chanzuckerberg.com/science/"><img src="/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/CZI_Logotype_RGB.jpg" style="width:65%" alt="CZI" /></a>

{{< columns >}}

<br/>

**2025 Gold Sponsor:**

<a target="_new" href="https://seqera.io/"><img src="/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Logo_Seqera-Color.png" style="width:95%" alt="Seqera" /></a>


{{< column >}}
<br/>
**2025 Silver Sponsor:**

{{< columns >}}

[![GigaScience](/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Gigascience.png)](https://academic.oup.com/gigascience)

{{< column >}}

{{< endcolumns >}}

{{< endcolumns >}}

<div class="well">

### About BOSC

The Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC) has been [held annually since 2000](/events/bosc/about/). BOSC is organized by the [Open Bioinformatics Foundation (OBF)](/wiki/Main_Page), a non-profit group dedicated to promoting the practice and philosophy of open source software development and open science within the biological research community.

Since its inception, BOSC has provided a forum for developers and users to interact and share research results and ideas in open source bioinformatics. BOSC’s broad spectrum of topics includes practical techniques for solving bioinformatics problems; software development practices; standards and ontologies; approaches that promote open science and sharing of data, results and software; and ways to grow and sustain open source communities.

BOSC is usually preceded or followed by 
[CollaborationFest](/events/bosc/collaborationfest/)
(CoFest for short), a two-day collaborative work session. This is an
opportunity for anyone interested in open science, biology and
programming to meet, talk and work collaboratively. In 2025,
CollaborationFest will be part of ISMB/ECCB!

<a href="/events/bosc/about" class="btn btn-lg btn-primary">More about BOSC</a>

</div>

<div class="well">

### BOSC 2025 Organizing Committee

{{< columns >}}

***Chair: Nomi L. Harris*** (Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory)

- Karsten Hokamp (Trinity College Dublin)
- Deepak Unni (SIB, Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics)
- Jessica Maia (BD)
- Tazro Ohta (Chiba University)
- Jason Williams (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory)
- Monica Munoz-Torres (Univ. of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus)
- Hervé Ménager (Institut Pasteur)

{{< column >}}

![BOSC 2025 Organizing Committee](/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/BOSC-2025-org-committee-square.png)

{{< endcolumns >}}

#### BOSC 2025 Review Committee
Aziz Khan*, Bastian Greshake Tzovaras*, Bhavesh Patel, Christopher Fields*, Damien Goutte-Gattat*, Daniel Korn, Deepak Unni, Fortune Ogo-Ndah Awala, Gayathri Jonnalagadda, J. Harry Caufield*, Karsten Hokamp, Kartik Khosa, Konstantin Okonechnikov, 
Luis Pedro Coelho, Monica C Munoz-Torres, Naouel Karam, Nomi Harris, Olawumi Olasunkanmi, Peter Cock, Rafael Gonçalves, Sayali Talware, Sepideh Mazrouee*, Tanya Berardini, Tazro Ohta*, Tyrone Chen, Van Truong, Yuvanesh Vedaraju
* indicates reviewers who did extra reviews

</div>

#### Code of Conduct

As part of ISMB/ECCB 2025, BOSC 2025 is covered by the [ISCB Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.iscb.org/iscb-policy-statements/iscb-code-of-ethics-and-professional-conduct).
