content/page/keynotes-2025.md, before:

---
author: nlharris
date: "2025-03-26T04:29:08+00:00"
guid: https://www.open-bio.org/?page_id=7706
title: BOSC 2025 Keynotes
url: /events/bosc-2025/bosc-2025-keynotes/

---

<img src="/img/2025/2025-03-26-Chris-Mungall-2022-square.jpg" alt ="Chris Mungall" style="width:50%"/>

### Chris Mungall (Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory)

#### _Open Knowledge Bases in the Age of Generative AI_
#### (Keynote talk for [joint BOSC/BOKR session](/2025/03/17/BOSC-BOKR-2025/))

Dr. Chris Mungall is a Senior Scientist at Berkeley Lab, where he heads the [Biosystems Data Science department](https://biosciences.lbl.gov/egsb/biosystems-data-science/) in the Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology Division. Chris’s research interests center around the capture, computational integration, and dissemination of biological research data, and the development of methods for using this data to elucidate biological mechanisms underpinning the health of humans and of the planet. He and his team have led the creation of key biological ontologies for the integration of resources covering gene function, anatomy, phenotypes and the environment, including the the Uberon anatomy ontology, the Cell Ontology (CL), and the Mondo disease ontology. He is also one of the cofounders of the [OBO Foundry](https://obofoundry.org/).

Chris and his collaborators develop systems that translate data and knowledge into a computable form and apply it to answer complex biological and biomedical questions. His areas of focus include ontologies, systems biology, data science, biocuration, knowledge representation, data harmonization, reusable and interoperable software, knowledge graphs, machine learning and reasoning. For decades, he has been a strong advocate for open-source bioinformatics software, open standards, and open science.

Chris, who has a PhD in bioinformatics from the University of Edinburgh, is a PI on the [Gene Ontology](http://geneontology.org/) (GO), the [Monarch Initiative](https://monarchinitiative.org/), the [Alliance of Genome Resources](https://www.alliancegenome.org/), [Phenomics First](https://biosciences.lbl.gov/2020/10/08/phenomics-first-project-receives-10m-to-unite-genetic-disease-data/), and the [NCATS Biomedical Data Translator](https://ncats.nih.gov/translator), as well as metadata lead for the [National Microbiome Data Collaborative](https://microbiomedata.org/) (NMDC).
In 2017, Chris was the first person to be awarded the [Exceptional Contributions to Biocuration Award](https://www.biocuration.org/2017-biocuration-awards/) by the International Society for Biocuration. In 2020, he received a Berkeley Lab Early Scientific Career Director’s Award.

<br/>

<img src="/img/2025/2025-05-08-P30626-Christine-Orengo.jpg" alt ="Christine Orengo" style="width:50%"/>

### Christine Orengo (University College London)

#### (Title TBA)

Dr. Christine Orengo is a Professor of Bioinformatics at University College London (UCL).
Her research focuses on the development of algorithms to capture relationships between protein structures, sequences and functions.
She has built one of the most comprehensive protein classifications, CATH. CATH structural and functional data for hundreds of millions of proteins has enabled studies that revealed essential universal proteins and their biological roles, and extended characterisation of biological systems implicated in disease e.g. in cell division, cancer and aging.
Dr. Orengo is known for her support of FAIR and open data and data sharing practices.

Dr. Orengo is a Vice President of the International Society of Computational Biology (ISCB) and was previously the ISCB's first female President. She is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology and Elected member of EMBO since 2014, and a Fellow of ISCB since 2016. 

<br/>

<div class="well">

### BOSC keynote speaker selection process

BOSC usually includes two or three keynote talks given by prominent individuals or emerging leaders who are accomplished in areas relevant to the bioinformatics open source community and who represent a range of backgrounds and ideas. Please see our [invited speaker rubric](https://github.com/OBF/bosc_materials/blob/master/invited-speaker-process.md) for more information about our keynote speaker selection process and criteria.

</div>

Commit message:

Update Christine Orengo photo + talk title

content/page/keynotes-2025.md, after:

---
author: nlharris
date: "2025-03-26T04:29:08+00:00"
guid: https://www.open-bio.org/?page_id=7706
title: BOSC 2025 Keynotes
url: /events/bosc-2025/bosc-2025-keynotes/

---

<img src="/img/2025/2025-03-26-Chris-Mungall-2022-square.jpg" alt ="Chris Mungall" style="width:50%"/>

### Chris Mungall (Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory)

#### _Open Knowledge Bases in the Age of Generative AI_
#### (Keynote talk for [joint BOSC/BOKR session](/2025/03/17/BOSC-BOKR-2025/))

Dr. Chris Mungall is a Senior Scientist at Berkeley Lab, where he heads the [Biosystems Data Science department](https://biosciences.lbl.gov/egsb/biosystems-data-science/) in the Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology Division. Chris’s research interests center around the capture, computational integration, and dissemination of biological research data, and the development of methods for using this data to elucidate biological mechanisms underpinning the health of humans and of the planet. He and his team have led the creation of key biological ontologies for the integration of resources covering gene function, anatomy, phenotypes and the environment, including the the Uberon anatomy ontology, the Cell Ontology (CL), and the Mondo disease ontology. He is also one of the cofounders of the [OBO Foundry](https://obofoundry.org/).

Chris and his collaborators develop systems that translate data and knowledge into a computable form and apply it to answer complex biological and biomedical questions. His areas of focus include ontologies, systems biology, data science, biocuration, knowledge representation, data harmonization, reusable and interoperable software, knowledge graphs, machine learning and reasoning. For decades, he has been a strong advocate for open-source bioinformatics software, open standards, and open science.

Chris, who has a PhD in bioinformatics from the University of Edinburgh, is a PI on the [Gene Ontology](http://geneontology.org/) (GO), the [Monarch Initiative](https://monarchinitiative.org/), the [Alliance of Genome Resources](https://www.alliancegenome.org/), [Phenomics First](https://biosciences.lbl.gov/2020/10/08/phenomics-first-project-receives-10m-to-unite-genetic-disease-data/), and the [NCATS Biomedical Data Translator](https://ncats.nih.gov/translator), as well as metadata lead for the [National Microbiome Data Collaborative](https://microbiomedata.org/) (NMDC).
In 2017, Chris was the first person to be awarded the [Exceptional Contributions to Biocuration Award](https://www.biocuration.org/2017-biocuration-awards/) by the International Society for Biocuration. In 2020, he received a Berkeley Lab Early Scientific Career Director’s Award.

<br/>

<img src="/img/2025/2025-05-12-Christine-Orengo-square.png" alt ="Christine Orengo" style="width:50%"/>

### Christine Orengo (University College London)

#### _Working together to develop, promote and protect our data resources: Lessons learnt developing CATH and TED_

Dr. Christine Orengo is a Professor of Bioinformatics at University College London (UCL).
Her research focuses on the development of algorithms to capture relationships between protein structures, sequences and functions.
She has built one of the most comprehensive protein classifications, CATH. CATH structural and functional data for hundreds of millions of proteins has enabled studies that revealed essential universal proteins and their biological roles, and extended characterisation of biological systems implicated in disease e.g. in cell division, cancer and aging.
Dr. Orengo is known for her support of FAIR and open data and data sharing practices.

Dr. Orengo received her PhD from University College London. She is currently a Vice President of the International Society of Computational Biology (ISCB) and was previously the ISCB's first female President.
She is a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS), an Elected Member of EMBO since 2014, and a Fellow of ISCB since 2016. 

<br/>

<div class="well">

### BOSC keynote speaker selection process

BOSC usually includes two or three keynote talks given by prominent individuals or emerging leaders who are accomplished in areas relevant to the bioinformatics open source community and who represent a range of backgrounds and ideas. Please see our [invited speaker rubric](https://github.com/OBF/bosc_materials/blob/master/invited-speaker-process.md) for more information about our keynote speaker selection process and criteria.

</div>
