content/page/obf-bosc-collaborationfest-2025.md, before:

---
author: hmenager
cover:
  alt: CoFest-2022
  image: https://www.open-bio.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/image4.jpg
date: "2025-02-16T09:35:44+00:00" #creation date
title: ISMB CollaborationFest 2025
url: /events/bosc-2025/ismb-collaborationfest-2025/
bosc: yes
---

In conjunction with our annual meeting, [BOSC](/events/bosc-2025/), the [OBF](/) will this year run a joint collaborative event organised by volunteers from four different COSIs: BOSC, Bio-Ontologies and Knowledge Representation (BOKR), Function COSI, and 3DSIG. At these events, participants work together to contribute code, documentation, training materials, and challenging analysis problems and use cases. If you are interested in learning and contributing in an intensely collaborative environment, then CollaborationFest is for you.

BOSC has organized CollaborationFests (aka CoFests) every year before or after ISMB since 2010. (See, for example, [the 2024 CoFest](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc-2024/obf-bosc-collaborationfest-2024/).) This year, we are excited to hold CollaborationFest as part of ISMB/ECCB, opening it to all registered ISMB/ECCB participants.

Due to space constraints, participation in CollaborationFest is limited. To indicate your interest, [register for ISMB/ECCB 2025](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/register) by June 20 and sign up for CollaborationFest as an “add-on” during the registration process. We will contact you by June 23 to gather additional information to help organize the event. Last-minute walk-ins may be possible if space allows.

Limited remote participation will be possible, but engagement will depend on the people and projects active on the day. A video feed from the room will be available, but joining will require you to be a registered (virtual or in-person) ISMB attendee.

### Date

Wednesday July 25 to Thursday July 26.

### Code of Conduct



As part of ISMB 2025, BOSC 2025 is covered by the [ISCB Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.iscb.org/iscb-policy-statements/iscb-code-of-ethics-and-professional-conduct).

Commit message:

changes to collaborationfest page, links to it, and bosc menu. also add hugo tips to README

content/page/obf-bosc-collaborationfest-2025.md, after:

---
author: hmenager
cover:
  alt: CoFest-2022
  image: https://www.open-bio.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/image4.jpg
date: "2025-02-16T09:35:44+00:00" #creation date
title: ISMB CollaborationFest 2025
url: /events/bosc-2025/ismb-collaborationfest-2025/
aliases:
  - /events/bosc/collaborationfest/
bosc: yes
---

ISMB CollaborationFest 2025 will be a collaborative work event at which participants work together to contribute code, documentation, training materials, and challenging analysis problems and use cases. If you are interested in learning and contributing in an intensely collaborative environment, then CollaborationFest is for you. Bring your own project ideas or come ready to collaborate with others on their projects!

![Participants at CoFest 2024](/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/cofest2024-1.jpeg)

BOSC has organized CollaborationFests (aka CoFests) every year before or after ISMB since 2010 (see, for example, [the 2024 CoFest page](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc-2024/obf-bosc-collaborationfest-2024/).). This year, we are excited to hold CollaborationFest as part of ISMB/ECCB, opening it to all registered ISMB/ECCB participants. The organizers are affiliated with four different COSIs: BOSC, Bio-Ontologies and Knowledge Representation (BOKR), Function COSI, and 3DSIG.

### How to sign up

Due to space constraints, participation in CollaborationFest is limited. To indicate your interest, [register for ISMB/ECCB 2025](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/register) by June 20 and sign up for CollaborationFest as an “add-on” during the registration process. We will contact you by June 23 to gather additional information to help organize the event. Last-minute walk-ins may be possible if space allows.

Limited remote participation will be possible, but engagement opportunities will depend on the people and projects active on the day. A video feed from the room will be available, but joining will require you to be a registered (virtual or in-person) ISMB/ECCB participant.

### Dates

Wednesday July 25 to Thursday July 26.

### Code of Conduct

As part of ISMB/ECCB 2025, CollaborationFest 2025 is covered by the [ISCB Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.iscb.org/iscb-policy-statements/iscb-code-of-ethics-and-professional-conduct).
