README.md, before:

# conversion of the obf website to GitHub pages

Migration of the OBF WP site to a static site generator (Hugo)

## Running hugo server locally

### Setting up a GitHub fork so you can make changes on your desktop
(Instructions for those who are not git gurus)

1. To make changes to web pages on your desktop and commit them from the command line to GH, you will need a
[GitHub personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens).
2. Go to https://github.com/OBF/OBF.github.io and make a fork
3. Then on your desktop (from the shell) do:
```
git clone  https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_ID/OBF.github.io
```
4. After you edit files on your desktop as desired, do:
```
cd OBF.github.io
git checkout -b BRANCH_NAME
git add FILES
git commit -m "my changes"
git push    (or you might need to do git push --set-upstream origin BRANCH_NAME)
```

5. Then go to https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_ID/OBF.github.io to make a PR
6. Once the PR is merged, your changes should be visible on
[https://obf.github.io/](https://obf.github.io/)

7. Next time you want to make more changes, first update your fork
(because others may have committed changes). Go to
https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_ID/OBF.github.io and click the "Sync
fork" button.

8. Then update your local copy to get the latest version.
```
git checkout main
git pull
```
9. Edit your local copy as desired. Then do the steps in #4 (with a NEW branch name) to commit your latest changes.


### Using hugo
0. Hugo documentation: https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/
1. [Install hugo](https://gohugo.io/installation/)
2. Initialize hugo
```
git submodule init
git submodule update
```
4. Run `hugo server` from the root folder of the project to launch a local server that automatically rebuilds:
```
hugo server &
```
5. View the site in your web browser by going to [http://localhost:1313/](http://localhost:1313/)
6. When you save edits to the web page files,
   http://localhost:1313/ will reload seconds later so you can instantly see the changes!


#### Seeing images on localhost

At the moment (2025-03-05), historic images live in a large separate repo
https://github.com/OBF/wp-content/ which is included as a git submodule.
If you want to view images in the web pages on localhost:1313, you will need
to also initialise this repository, which is currently setup using the 
`git submodule` workflow. **By default the `wp-content` submodule is not cloned**

To load it you can run: 

* `cd OBF.github.io/`
* `git submodule init`
* `git submodule update`

Getting the files can take a while (the `wp-content` repo is ~500 MB).

This may change.

#### Adding new images

For new images, you can place these into the `static/img` folder of this repository, ideally in a subfolder based on the four digit year.

When compiling the website during the build, Hugo will move everything in `static/` into the website root, i.e. to `open-bio.org/`. This means that when linking images you do not have to include the `static/` as part of the media/image link. 

As an example: A file that resides in `static/img/test-image.jpg` should be linked in the markdown files like this: `![an image](/img/test-image.jpg)`

It is also good practice to name media files with the date you add them/the date of the page/post you want to add them to, e.g. `static/img/2025/2025-03-04-blogpost-image.jpg` (using `yyyy-mm-dd` as the start of the filename).

#### Some other random tips

- To set up a URL redirect, add an alias to the page you want to
  redirect *to*. This goes in the header part of the .md (the part
  between the three dashes) and looks like this:
```
 aliases:
  - /events/bosc/
```

  - To include an image, you can use this markdown format:
  ```
  ![alt text](image-path)
```

- Images take up the full width of the page. If you want to scale an
image, use this html:
```
<img src="image-path" style="width:75%" alt="alt text" />
```

- There's also a "gallery" option (I haven't tried it):
```
{{< gallery class="content-gallery" >}}
```

- When testing changes on localhost:1313, note that changes that
  involve .pngs take effect right away, but for some reason, if you're
  using .jpg or .jpeg images, it takes a while (20 min or so?) for
  them to show up on localhost. No idea why.

- To enclose a section of text in a gray box use
  ```
  <div class="well">
  ```
  
- To make two columns (e.g. to run text next to an image), use
"columns" (look for an example in one of our .mds)
- You can make a button like this:
```
<a href="URL" class="btn btn-lg btn-primary">text on button</a>
```

- Posts: you can create new posts by creating a file in the content/posts directory (you can copy and modify an older post). Note the date field - if you set that to a date that's in the future, your post won't show up on the posts page or the OBF homepage.
  - To get posts to show up on the BOSC news page, include the category "bosc" (the tag doesn't seem to matter).
  - Note that new posts may not show up on the main OBF home page until you kill and restart hugo.

## Steps taken to port content from old WP site

1. Create XML export of existing WP site with all pages & posts
2. Run the conversion script [wp2hugo](https://github.com/ashishb/wp2hugo) in the following way `/wp2hugo -source obf.WordPress.2025-01-30.xml -output obf-test-hugo -download-media -continue-on-media-download-error`
3. update the `hugo.yaml` to use the correct base page (as currently
   not deployed on open-bio.org). (For now, the first line of
   hugo.yaml should say "baseURL: https://OBF.github.io" but that will
   change later)

Commit message:

added instructions about setting posts to draft mode

README.md, after:

# conversion of the obf website to GitHub pages

Migration of the OBF WP site to a static site generator (Hugo)

## Running hugo server locally

### Setting up a GitHub fork so you can make changes on your desktop
(Instructions for those who are not git gurus)

1. To make changes to web pages on your desktop and commit them from the command line to GH, you will need a
[GitHub personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens).
2. Go to https://github.com/OBF/OBF.github.io and make a fork
3. Then on your desktop (from the shell) do:
```
git clone  https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_ID/OBF.github.io
```
4. After you edit files on your desktop as desired, do:
```
cd OBF.github.io
git checkout -b BRANCH_NAME
git add FILES
git commit -m "my changes"
git push    (or you might need to do git push --set-upstream origin BRANCH_NAME)
```

5. Then go to https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_ID/OBF.github.io to make a PR
6. Once the PR is merged, your changes should be visible on
[https://obf.github.io/](https://obf.github.io/)

7. Next time you want to make more changes, first update your fork
(because others may have committed changes). Go to
https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_ID/OBF.github.io and click the "Sync
fork" button.

8. Then update your local copy to get the latest version.
```
git checkout main
git pull
```
9. Edit your local copy as desired. Then do the steps in #4 (with a NEW branch name) to commit your latest changes.

NOTE: if your git push fails with a 400 error, it could be because the files you were trying to push were too big (I had this problem with just three image files!). To fix that, type:
````
git config --global http.postBuffer 157286400
````


### Using hugo
0. Hugo documentation: https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/
1. [Install hugo](https://gohugo.io/installation/)
2. Initialize hugo
```
git submodule init
git submodule update
```
4. Run `hugo server` from the root folder of the project to launch a local server that automatically rebuilds:
```
hugo server &
```
5. View the site in your web browser by going to [http://localhost:1313/](http://localhost:1313/)
6. When you save edits to the web page files,
   http://localhost:1313/ will reload seconds later so you can instantly see the changes!


#### Seeing images on localhost

At the moment (2025-03-05), historic images live in a large separate repo
https://github.com/OBF/wp-content/ which is included as a git submodule.
If you want to view images in the web pages on localhost:1313, you will need
to also initialise this repository, which is currently setup using the 
`git submodule` workflow. **By default the `wp-content` submodule is not cloned**

To load it you can run: 

* `cd OBF.github.io/`
* `git submodule init`
* `git submodule update`

Getting the files can take a while (the `wp-content` repo is ~500 MB).

This may change.

#### Adding new images

For new images, you can place these into the `static/img` folder of this repository, ideally in a subfolder based on the four digit year.

When compiling the website during the build, Hugo will move everything in `static/` into the website root, i.e. to `open-bio.org/`. This means that when linking images you do not have to include the `static/` as part of the media/image link. 

As an example: A file that resides in `static/img/test-image.jpg` should be linked in the markdown files like this: `![an image](/img/test-image.jpg)`

It is also good practice to name media files with the date you add them/the date of the page/post you want to add them to, e.g. `static/img/2025/2025-03-04-blogpost-image.jpg` (using `yyyy-mm-dd` as the start of the filename).

#### Some other random tips

- To set up a URL redirect, add an alias to the page you want to
  redirect *to*. This goes in the header part of the .md (the part
  between the three dashes) and looks like this:
```
 aliases:
  - /events/bosc/
```

  - To include an image, you can use this markdown format:
  ```
  ![alt text](image-path)
```

- Images take up the full width of the page. If you want to scale an
image, use this html:
```
<img src="image-path" style="width:75%" alt="alt text" />
```

- There's also a "gallery" option (I haven't tried it):
```
{{< gallery class="content-gallery" >}}
```

- When testing changes on localhost:1313, note that changes that
  involve .pngs take effect right away, but for some reason, if you're
  using .jpg or .jpeg images, it takes a while (20 min or so?) for
  them to show up on localhost. No idea why.

- To enclose a section of text in a gray box use
  ```
  <div class="well">
  ```
  
- To make two columns (e.g. to run text next to an image), use
"columns" (look for an example in one of our .mds)
- You can make a button like this:
```
<a href="URL" class="btn btn-lg btn-primary">text on button</a>
```

- Posts: you can create new posts by creating a file in the content/posts directory (you can copy and modify an older post). Note the date field - if you set that to a date that's in the future, your post won't show up on the posts page or the OBF homepage.
  - If you want to preview posts on localhost, set the date to the current date and add a line "draft: true". Then kill your hugo server and start it again with the argument "--buildDrafts". This allows you to commit the blog post to the repo without having it show up on the live site (you'll have to remove "draft: true" to make it show up).
  - To get posts to show up on the BOSC news page, include the category "bosc" (the tag doesn't seem to matter).
  - Note that new posts may not show up on the main OBF home page until you kill and restart hugo.

## Steps taken to port content from old WP site

1. Create XML export of existing WP site with all pages & posts
2. Run the conversion script [wp2hugo](https://github.com/ashishb/wp2hugo) in the following way `/wp2hugo -source obf.WordPress.2025-01-30.xml -output obf-test-hugo -download-media -continue-on-media-download-error`
3. update the `hugo.yaml` to use the correct base page (as currently
   not deployed on open-bio.org). (For now, the first line of
   hugo.yaml should say "baseURL: https://OBF.github.io" but that will
   change later)
