content/posts/ISMB-CollaborationFest-2025.md, before:

---
author: nlharris
category:
  - bosc
  - ismb
  - community
cover:
  alt: People at CoFest 2024
  image: /wp-content/uploads/2025/01/cofest2024-1.jpeg
date: "2025-02-26T21:30:32+00:00"
tag:
  - bosc
  - ismb
  - conferences
  - collaborationfest
  - cofest

title: Join us at ISMB CollaborationFest 2025!
url: /2025/02/26/ISMB-CollaborationFest-2025

---

[CollaborationFest 2025](/events/bosc/collaborationfest/) will be a two-day collaborative work event at which participants work together to contribute code, documentation, training materials, and challenging analysis problems and use cases. Bring your own project ideas or come ready to collaborate with others on their projects!

[![CoFest gallery](/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/CoFest-gallery.png)](/events/bosc/collaborationfest/)  
 
BOSC has held CollaborationFests (aka CoFests) every year before or after ISMB since 2010. This year, we decided to hold the CollaborationFest as part of ISMB/ECCB and open it to all registered ISMB/ECCB participants. It will take place during the last two days of ISMB/ECCB. 

[ISMB CollaborationFest 2025]((/events/bosc/collaborationfest/) is co-organized by volunteers from four COSIs:
- Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC)
- Bio-Ontologies and Knowledge Representation (BOKR)
- Function COSI
- 3DSig

Due to space constraints, participation in CollaborationFest is limited. To indicate your interest in participating, **[register for ISMB/ECCB 2025]((https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/register)) by June 20 and sign up for CollaborationFest as an “add-on”** during the registration process. We will contact you by June 23 to request a few pieces of information to help us organize the event. Last-minute walk-ins may be possible for ISMB participants if we are not at capacity.

A limited number of ISMB registration waivers will be available for trainees (students and postdocs) who would like to participate in the CollaborationFest.

Limited remote participation will be possible but how much you can interact will be highly dependent on the people and projects active on the day. We expect to have a video feed from the room available; joining will require you to have [registered as a (virtual or in-person) ISMB/ECCB attendee](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/register).

Commit message:

put dates in future so posts don't show up on news page yet; add info about how to get ISMB support to attend CoFest

content/posts/ISMB-CollaborationFest-2025.md, after:

---
author: nlharris
category:
  - bosc
  - ismb
  - community
cover:
  alt: People at CoFest 2024
  image: /wp-content/uploads/2025/01/cofest2024-1.jpeg
date: "2025-03-07T21:30:32+00:00"
tag:
  - bosc
  - ismb
  - conferences
  - collaborationfest
  - cofest

title: Join us at ISMB CollaborationFest 2025!
url: /2025/02/26/ISMB-CollaborationFest-2025

---

[CollaborationFest 2025](/events/bosc/collaborationfest/) will be a two-day collaborative work event at which participants work together to contribute code, documentation, training materials, and challenging analysis problems and use cases. Bring your own project ideas or come ready to collaborate with others on their projects!

[![CoFest gallery](/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/CoFest-gallery.png)](/events/bosc/collaborationfest/)  
 
BOSC has held CollaborationFests (aka CoFests) every year before or after ISMB since 2010. This year, we decided to hold the CollaborationFest as part of ISMB/ECCB and open it to all registered ISMB/ECCB participants. It will take place during the last two days of ISMB/ECCB. 

[ISMB CollaborationFest 2025]((/events/bosc/collaborationfest/) is co-organized by volunteers from four COSIs:
- Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC)
- Bio-Ontologies and Knowledge Representation (BOKR)
- Function COSI
- 3DSig

Due to space constraints, participation in CollaborationFest is limited. To indicate your interest in participating, **[register for ISMB/ECCB 2025]((https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/register)) by June 20 and sign up for CollaborationFest as an “add-on”** during the registration process. We will contact you by June 23 to request a few pieces of information to help us organize the event. Last-minute walk-ins may be possible for ISMB participants if we are not at capacity.

A limited number of ISMB registration waivers will be available for
trainees (students and postdocs) who would like to participate in the
CollaborationFest and are willing to work as volunteers during the
first few days of ISMB--[more info here](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/general-info/apply-to-be-event-staff).

Limited remote participation will be possible but the amount of
interaction that is possible will be highly dependent on the people and projects active on the day. We expect to have a video feed from the room available; joining will require you to have [registered as a (virtual or in-person) ISMB/ECCB attendee](https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2025/register).
